App Services:
Create, build, deploy, and manage powerful web, mobile, and API apps for employees or customers using a single 
back-end. Build standards-based web apps and APIs using .NET, Java, Node.js, PHP, and Python.
We dont have control over the actual hardware and we dont really know the characterstics of hardware.
We just need to upload the code and configuration for that code and azure will run it.
Azure App Service is a powerful web application hosting platform. 
Azure Functions, built on top of the App Service infrastructure, enables you to easily build 
serverless and event-driven compute workloads. Both services are frequently used in multitenant solutions.

WebApp:
App Service Web Apps lets you quickly build, deploy, and scale enterprise-grade web, mobile, and API apps 
running on any platform. Meet rigorous performance, scalability, security and compliance requirements while 
using a fully managed platform to perform infrastructure maintenance.
It has got built in integration with VS code, Github actions, Azure devops.

API App: Its a web app that doesn't have user interface but communicates with xml or json.

Mobile App:
It is a backend app that integrates with mobile on frontend.

API and mobile app functionalities are covered in Web app.

Create a new Web App:
The name of webapp is fully qualified(.azurewebsites.net) and it should be unique as it appears across azure.
Select Code based webapp or docker container or Static webapp.
Select runtime.

Select the pricing plans:

Zone Redundancy:
Only available for Premium plan.

GitHub Actions and Virtual Networking:
GitHub Actions is an automation framework that can build, test, and deploy your app whenever a new commit is 
made in your repository. If your code is in GitHub, choose your repository here and we will add a workflow file 
to automatically deploy your app to App Service. If your code is not in GitHub, go to the Deployment Center once
the web app is created to set up your deployment.
We get option of continuos deployment.

In virtual networking we dont need to setup anything like virtual network, security groups etc azure will take 
care of it.

Monitoring:
Azure Monitor application insights is an Application Performance Management (APM) service for developers 
and DevOps professionals. Enable it below to automatically monitor your application. It will detect performance 
anomalies, and includes powerful analytics tools to help you diagnose issues and to understand what users actually 
do with your app. Your bill is based on amount of data used by Application Insights and your data retention 
settings.

After deploying the web app go to the resource:
Click on Deployment slots.
Deployment slots: Deployment slots are live apps with their own hostnames. App content and configurations 
elements can be swapped between two deployment slots, including the production slot.
We can add multiple slots like development, production etc.
we can send some amount of traffic to development slot from prod to do real production testing.
We can also swap the slots, we can put dev slot into prod for newer version.
And we can undo this swap by again swapping with older slot.

WebApp Settings:
Configuration:
Application settings allow you to seperate out dynamic variables of a application from code.
Used to put sensitive values like api keys, user ids etc so that we dont need to put them in 
github.
Scale up -> Increase the size of the instance.

Scale out -> Increase the number of the instances.
We can set the scaling to manual or automatic(Rules based).



