An Azure storage account contains all of your Azure Storage data objects: blobs, files, queues, and tables. 
The storage account provides a unique namespace for your Azure Storage data that's accessible from anywhere in 
the world over HTTP or HTTPS. Data in your storage account is durable and highly available, secure, and massively 
scalable.

Storage account contain access keys using which Anyone can access the Storage account if we enable 
public networking.

This is claims based access control (CBAC).
Its convenient but not always entirely safe. 

So, We will secure our storage account with azure Entra ID (Active Directory) using RBAC instad of access keys(CBAC).
To enable RBAC on storage account and disable access using the access keys:
Go to 
Storage Accounts -> Configuration -> Enable azure active directory authorization

On Access Control(IAM) (inside storage account) we can see and assign access to the storage.

Roles:
Owner:
Grants full access including ability to assign roles in Azure RBAC.
Contributor:
Grants full access but does not allow to assign roles in Azure RBAC.
Reader:
View all resources but does not allow you to make changes.

Using containers we can create or upload different data in different containers and assign different roles to 
different users in storage account.

If we want to create our own custom roles then we need to have access of P1 or P2 level.
Steps to create a custom role:
Go to Home -> Subscriptions -> Click on your subscription (e.g. free trial) -> Access Control -> Create a custom role
We get three options which are to start from the scratch, clone an existing role and modify it, Start from JSON.
So the roles that we create at subscription level will be applied to every storage account.
Also we can add custom scope if we want to give access to specific Resource Group.

Resource groups contains different resources like storage account.

Resource Group Scope:
We might have resources for development environment and for production environment and we want to give permissions 
to wide range of people. Different people will have different access in development and production so we can 
do it by providing roles at Resource Group level.

Deny assignment: To deny user to perform specific action.
Azure Blueprints: Blueprints enable quick creation of governed subscriptions. This allows Cloud Architects to 
design environments that comply with organizational standards and best practices – enabling your app teams to 
get to production faster.

Access Tiers:
1. Premium -> Most expensive
2. Hot -> Frequent access
3. Cool -> Infrequent access and use for backup
4. Archive -> Least expensite

Network Routing in Storage Accounts:
Chooses the path that your data is going to travel.
Two types:
1. Microsoft network routing(More Secure): Suppose you have got a storage account in america and a customer in japan 
who is outside of azure who wants to access that data so on this routing data will travel in microsoft azure 
private network to japan and then it would exit azure onto the public internet in japan to connect to customer.
2. Internet routing: In this routing data path will exit azure in america into the public internet and will travel
across the public internet to japan.

Data Protection in Storage Account:
1. Recovery:
Protect your data from accidental or erroneous deletion or modification.
Soft delete for blobs: When you delete a file its not actually instantly deleted its just going to be marked for
deletion and it will take number of days for deletion.
We get soft delete options for blobs, containers, file shares.
Enable Point-in-time restore for containers: We can restore one or more containers to an earlier state.
If point in time restore is enabled, then versioning, change feed and blob soft delete must also be enabled. 

Encryption type:
Microsoft-managed keys (MMK)
Customer-managed keys (CMK)

Infrastructure encryotion:
Second layer of encryption to storage account's data.

Types of Data Storage:
Containers(Blob Storage):
Its like a box in which we can put files. There is no  concept here of folders and sub-folders.
Its just a single container which holds set of the files.

File Shares: Its like a traditional storage where we can store in C drive, D drive etc.
Its a publicly sharable file structure with permissions.
It is HIERARCHICAL. We can add directories and sub-directories.

Queues:
They are like a messaging service. One application can put a message on it and 
another apllication can then read the queue. Messages goes in order. so the other application will read the
first message 

Tables(Semi Structured Data):
Tables are a way of storing the data in a semi structured manner within your storage account.
To add data in tables Go to Storage Browser and edit the tables.

Access Keys and SAS:
SAS: Shared Access Signature
A shared access signature (SAS) is a URI that grants restricted access rights to Azure Storage resources. 
You can provide a shared access signature to clients who should not be trusted with your storage account key but 
whom you wish to delegate access to certain storage account resources. By distributing a shared access signature URI 
to these clients, you grant them access to a resource for a specified period of time.
We can give access to the users to only required services like only to blobs or to blobs and containers etc.
And also give permissions.
So assume we have added a pdf to the Storage account and someone wants access to it then we can shar the public url 
of that pdf and attach the generated SAS token after the question mark(?), 
We cant delete this token but we can rotate the key to
remove access of SAS generated using previous access key.

Stored Access Policies:
We can give policies to containers directly bt adding the 
access policy in container section and prviding time.
If we want to add read, write access to a specific PDF or Document inside a container then we can create policy for container and then
go to the PDF that we want to attach the policy and click on Generate SAS and select stored access policy and generate SAS token.

Redundant Storage:
Locally Redundant Storage: 2 additional copies will be stored in the same region.
Geo-redundant storage: Azure will create another copy of the storage account in another region and make copy of files in that region.

Access tier:
How much you are going to get charged for access and storage.
1. Hot: Default level (More for storage less for access)
2. Cool: Its 50% cheaper than Hot tier for storage. But access cost is double. (More for access less for storage)
Minimum period of billing is 30 days even if you remove file after 1 day you will becharged for 30 days.
3. Archive: Cheaper to store files and way more expensive to access them, designed to store file that you almost never need.
90% cheaper than hot tier. It may take several hours to retrieve the data. Charged for 180 days.
4. cold storage: For rarely accessed data that you want to keep for at least 90 days.

Storage account Performance tiers:
Premium : 10 times faster than standard storage and has low latency.
Standard : Low cost.

Azure Entra ID access control for storage:(3rd way after access keys sas and secure access policy)
Go to access control(IAM) set role assignemt and add roles to the users or to group or to a service principal(apps) like virtual machine, 
app service etc.

Under Operations:

Azure file shares soft delete:
It enables you to recover files shares that were previously marked for deletion.
we can set retainment period in days. after that period the file will get deleted.

Azure Backup on files:
We can schedule a backup or manually click backup button. Create own policies for backups.

Azure file shares snapshots:
Add snapshot will add the files in that particular snapshot.
Later we change to this file and we want to go back to some earlier version we can go back to snapshot for that version and
retrieve that particular version. So snapshot is not a backup but its a point in time version of the file.
It never expires like backup expires after 30 days.

Azure Blob storage versioning:
Use versioning to automatically maintain previous versions of your blobs.
Consider your workloads, their impact on the number of versions created, and the resulting costs. Optimize costs by automatically 
managing the data lifecycle. If someone deletes the current verion of blob still we can access the older versions of blob.
In Lifecycle management, we can create a rule specific for file versions and set to move the versions older than 2 days to 
cool storage as we will not need them frequently (rare use).

Log Analytics:
To track storage activities.
On monitoring track we can see activities on storage account.
Insights, Alerts, Metrics, Workbooks, Diagnostic settings, Logs.
Insights shows all the activities using graphs and all.
Using alerts we can set alert with some threshold.
Using metrics we can create the graphs.
Workbooks are the set of predefined templates. or we can create our own templatesand share them.
Diagnostic setting specifies a list of categories of platform logs and/or metrics that you want to collect from a resource, and one 
or more destinations that you would stream them to.
Logs: We can write our own queries or execute predefined queries.

Lifecycle management:
Suppose in your storage account you want your files in hot storage for first 30 days and then after 30 days you 
have to move them to cool storage to save money and after some days because of less use you have to move them in archive storage then,
we can use Lifecycle Management.

Moving large files via Azure Data Disk:
We use azure data box to perform import/export operations.
Its not available on free trial subscription its available on 
Microsoft Customer Agreement (MCA) for new subscriptions or 
Microsoft Enterprise Agreement (EA) for existing subscriptions.

Types of Azure Data Box:
We can fill up the disks that azure gives and then when we ship that data to them that time they will
copy that data from disks to azure storage accounts.

Data Box Disk:
Total usable capacity per order: 35TB
Up to 5 disks per order 
Supports Azure blobs, files, managed disks and ADLS Gen2 accounts.
Copy data to 1 storage account.
USB 3.1/SATA interface

Data Box:
80TB
10 day use without extra cost
Supports Azure blobs, files, managed disks and ADLS Gen2 accounts.
Copy data across 10 storage accounts.
1x1/10 Gbps RJ45, 2x10 Gbps SFP+ interface

Data Box Heavy:
800TB
20 day use without extra cost
Supports Azure blobs, files, managed disks and ADLS Gen2 accounts.
Copy data across 10 storage accounts.
4x1 Gbps, 4x40 Gbps interface

Free tier: Its a different process than azure data box.
Import/Export Job:
Send up to 10 disks per order
Support SATA/SSD Disks 
Supports Azure Blobs and files 
copy data to 1 storage
SATA ||/||| interface
102 CAD Handling fee per disk

Copy Files with AzCopy:
Its a command line utility that you can use to copy blobs or files to or from a storage account.
Available methods of authorization for AzCopy are Azure AD and SAS. It doesnt have access keys.

Azure storage explorer: Similar like storage browser, storage explorer is a desktop app of storage browser that can be downloaded.
Can be used to upload,download and manage azure storage blobs,files,queues and tables as well as azure data lake storage entities
and azure managed disks.

Object Replication:
Taking new files added to storage container and copying them to different storage account is called object replication.
We need to create a replication rule set the destination container, storage account and subscription.
We can also add prefix matches it find items like folders and blobs under specified container that start with specified input. 
e.g. Inputting "a" would filter any folders or blobs that start with "a". If multiple prefixes are specified, items that have any of these
prefixes will be included. So files that start with "a" can be copied to one container and files that start with "b" can be 
copied to some different container.
So when we upload any data in source container then it will be automatically copied to destination container(can exist in dofferent 
storage account) in read-only mode. and one &blobchangefeed container will be created in source container which tracks all the 
logs for replication.
This is object replication.

Azure general purpose storage account can contain four types of storage objects like blobs, files, queues, Tables. It also
can store Data Lake Storage Gen2.
Standard general purpose storage can have a capacity of 5PiB. and we can request more upto 500PiB per subscription per region.
Pricing range changes based on regions.
File Share contains SMB File Share which can be used to mount a drive. 
e.g. If you have 10 virtual machines and want to mount the same drive say T drive to work on and every virtual machine is pointing
to the same T Drive spot.  we can create it as a file share and mount that T drive as a part of the script so they all can access the 
T drive.
Basically we can acces the same T drive in file share in multiple VMs.

Azure File Sync: Used to take backup
Azure File Sync in combination with Azure file shares allows you to centralize your organization's file shares in Azure, while keeping 
the flexibility, performance, and compatibility of an on-premises file server.
Sync Group is basically a group of files that are kept synchronized so we can basically pick which files and folders are
going to get synchronized between file share and registered servers.

Premium storage account: 
For low storage latency.
Three options:
Block blobs, File Shares, Page Blobs.

